Campaigns tutorial: search & replace specific terms (#15105)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/campaigns/tutorials/search_and_replace_specific_terms.md

# Search and replace specific terms

<style>
.markdown-body pre.chroma {
  font-size: 0.75em;
}

img.screenshot {
    max-width: 600px;
    margin: 1em;
    margin-bottom: 0.5em;
    border: 1px solid lightgrey;
    border-radius: 10px;
}

img.center {
  display: block;
  margin: auto
}
</style>

<p class="lead">
Create a campaign that changes wording in every repository.
</p>

### Introduction

> This tutorial shows you how to create [a campaign spec](../explanations/introduction_to_campaigns.md#campaign-spec) that replaces the words `allowlist` and `denylist` with `allowlist` and `denylist` in every Markdown file across your entire code base.

Reviewer: Heh, did the campaign change your `blacklist` and `whitelist` in this Markdown file? 😄

Reviewer 2: haha this is funny

Author: Oh wow, it actually did

> This tutorial shows you how to create [a campaign spec](../explanations/introduction_to_campaigns.md#campaign-spec) that replaces the words `allowlist` and `denylist` with `allowlist` and `denylist` in every Markdown file across your entire code base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to create [a campaign spec](../explanations/introduction_to_campaigns.md#campaign-spec) that replaces the words `whitelist` and `blacklist` with `allowlist` and `denylist` in every Markdown file across your entire code base.
```

# Search and replace specific terms

<style>
.markdown-body pre.chroma {
  font-size: 0.75em;
}

img.screenshot {
    max-width: 600px;
    margin: 1em;
    margin-bottom: 0.5em;
    border: 1px solid lightgrey;
    border-radius: 10px;
}

img.center {
  display: block;
  margin: auto
}

</style>

<p class="lead">
Create a campaign that changes wording in every repository.
</p>

### Introduction

> This tutorial shows you how to create [a campaign spec](../explanations/introduction_to_campaigns.md#campaign-spec) that replaces the words `allowlist` and `denylist` with `allowlist` and `denylist` in every Markdown file across your complete code base.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to create [a campaign spec](../explanations/introduction_to_campaigns.md#campaign-spec) that replaces the words `allowlist` and `denylist` with `allowlist` and `denylist` in every Markdown file across your entire code base.
```

> The campaign spec is can be easily be changed to search and replace other terms in other file types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The campaign spec is can easily be changed to search and replace other terms in other file types.
```

  - run: |
      find . -type f \( -name '*.md' -or -name '*.markdown' \) -not -path "*/vendor/*" -not -path "*/node_modules/*" |\
      xargs sed -i 's/whitelist/allowlist/g; s/blacklist/denylist/g'
    container: alpine:3

# Describe the changeset (e.g., GitHub pull request) you want for each repository.
changesetTemplate:
  title: Replace whitelist/blacklist with allowlist/denylist
  body: This replaces the terms whitelist/blacklist in Markdown files with allowlist/denylist
  branch: campaigns/allowlist-denylist # Push the commit to this branch.
  commit:
    message: Replace whitelist/blacklist with allowlist/denylist
  published: false
```

### Create the campaign

1. In your terminal, run this command:

    <pre>src campaign preview -f use-allowlist-denylist-wording.campaign.yaml -namespace <em>USERNAME_OR_ORG</em></pre>

    > The `namespace` is either your Sourcegraph username or the name of a Sourcegraph organisation under which you want to create the campaign. If you're not sure what to choose, use your username.
1. Wait for it to run and compute the changes for each repository.
1. Open the preview URL that the command printed out.

> 1. Examine the preview. Confirm that the changesets are the ones you intended to track. If not, edit the campaign spec and then rerun the command above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Examine the preview. Confirm that the changesets do the intended changes. If not, edit the campaign spec and then rerun the command above.
```

The "track" confused me a bit, made me think of imported changesets. My suggestion is not great, though.

1. Click the **Apply spec** button to create the campaign.
1. Feel free to then publish the changesets (i.e. create pull requests and merge requests) by [modifying the `published` attribute in the campaign spec](../campaign_spec_yaml_reference.md#changesettemplate-published) and re-running the `src campaign preview` command.

### Using `ruplacer` to replace terms in multiple case styles

With [ruplacer](https://github.com/TankerHQ/ruplacer) we can easily search and replace terms in multiple case styles: `white_list`, `WhiteList`, `WHITE_LIST` etc.

> To use `ruplacer` in our campaign spec, all we need to do is to build a small Docker image in which `ruplacer` is availabe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use `ruplacer` in our campaign spec, all we need to do is to build a small Docker image in which `ruplacer` is available.
```

Save the following in a `Dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM rust
RUN cargo install ruplacer
```

Then build a Docker image, tagged with `ruplacer`, out of it by running the following command in your terminal:

```
docker build . -t ruplacer
```

> Once that is done, we can replace the `steps` in our campaign spec with the following:

Reviewer 2: Hmm, this is kinda a lot of additional effort and a separate file that isn't tracked in the spec. How slow is cargo install really? Could we replace it by 

```yaml
run: |
    cargo install ruplacer && <prev_command>
container: rust
```
?

Author: (Just repeating what I said to Erik on the Zoom call):

1. Doing the `cargo install` _every time_ you run the steps is super slow. Takes minutes.
1. I like introducing a new idea here ("use a custom tool in your own Docker images!") to show how flexible it is, it's not necessarily about "this is how you should do it every time in porduction"
1. I think the majority of campaign-users can figure out how to tweak the ideas here into their preferred format
1. That being said: I'm trying to see whether I can come up with a version that has everything in the campaign spec.

Author: This would be a non-extra-Dockerfile way to do this:

```yaml
# In each repository
steps:
  # find all *.md or *.markdown files, that are not in a vendor or node_modules folder, and replace the terms in them
  - run: |
      apk add curl \
      && curl -o ruplacer-v0.4.1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz -L 'https://github.com/TankerHQ/ruplacer/releases/download/v0.4.1/ruplacer-v0.4.1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz' \
      && tar xvzf ruplacer-v0.4.1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz \
      && mv ruplacer-v0.4.1-linux-x86_64/ruplacer /usr/local/bin/ruplacer \
      && chmod +x /usr/local/bin/ruplacer \
      && find . -type f \( -name '*.md' -or -name '*.markdown' \) -not -path "*/vendor/*" -not -path "*/node_modules/*" >> /tmp/find_result.txt \
      && cat /tmp/find_result.txt | while read file;
      do
        ruplacer --subvert whitelist allowlist --go ${file} || echo "nothing to replace";
        ruplacer --subvert blacklist denylist --go ${file} || echo "nothing to replace";
      done
    container: alpine:3
```

But that's quite a mouthful.

@chrispine @rrhyne what do you think?

Reviewer: Yeah, that is a lot! Honestly, I prefer the original (with the Dockerfile).

Another possibility is to first demonstrate the `cargo install` method that Erik showed, and just after that say "this was easy to set up, but running this takes longer than it feels like it should because it does the cargo install every time; we can speed this up by creating the following Dockerfile..." and continue from there.

How does that sound?

Reviewer 3: I also prefer the original docker file. Speaks to the flexibility of the solution.

Author: I incorporated your suggestion, @chrispine, of showing the "slow" version first and then explaining why using a custom Docker image is better.
